I got some negative feedback on my
recent videos and I'm not talking get a
feedback up the restaurant reviews I
raised
aisel insisted I posted intro the
Detroit restaurant review to Detroit
vegans Facebook group and now people who
write you and they sincerely ask the
question like what's the point of a
review if it's not positive well why
would you even say anything if you don't
have something nice to say you're like
yeah I don't know why do we why do we
publish movie criticism you know why
don't we only publish positive movie
reviews what why does this exist how
about how about the war how about the
only published positive articles in the
newspaper about the Iraq war that way
people won't get the wrong idea I know
what's the point of criticism in
politics politics or restaurants or a
movie I don't know what's the role of
routine see that's that's come up again
I've already done a bunch of videos like
on on critique the meaning of critique
its own yeah well this is maybe your
first experience with this side of
Internet I think so conviviality hmm I
got negative feedback under under
another heading so you know I've been
lately saying basically I'm a kind of
positive juncture in my thoughts
positive terms fell open to this to new
possibilities and new directions
negative in some other ways but in from
my perspective I have a gap of maybe six
months here where I could take on new
projects new collaborations new forms of
activism we could actually do the
paperwork and create an NGO we could
host a conference we could start a
publication either a unique publication
like a blog or something like a magazine
could take on southern or or I could
start a new YouTube channel you know it
has crossed my mind do a youtube channel
that's more kind of news and politics
focus there are different things I could
do in this window of time and then
approximately in September I think that
one at what time is gonna close right
and by the way there are other things I
could do unrelated to YouTube activism
but the same period of time so gotta
think about balancing those priorities a
little bit so I've kind of been putting
out feelers various ways and also in
these videos saying okay who wants to
you wants to jump aboard so one of the
types of feedback I've gotten
maybe this will shock you maybe no
that's up this other versus within his
video
one is I must be an idiot to think that
I could ever do activism with the type
of allegedly worthless people
I've met through YouTube and one guy was
just ready to me he keep this specific
example he was like oh what did you
actually think you were gonna get
something organised with somebody like
tofu goddess which very much surprised
me as a comment so because tokars was
mentioned in one of the one of the
recent videos I think more at least in
the discussion with flim face and stuff
as somebody I was trying to you know do
real-world activism with now there are
other people who are probably more
damning examples like you could ask did
you think anything positive was going to
come out of trying to collaborate with
Hania vania vania or Jason of Hannya
mania or you know all these other people
I mean in the world so the this is like
you've thought a lot about but haven't
dealt with it hands on real-life reality
that much but look you've heard me say
recently under under very different
heading I don't think you've got to be
brilliant to understand the message of
veganism I don't think you've got to be
brilliant to propound or promote the
message of vegan like there are a lot of
hard limits in terms of what kind of
person I don't want to work with right
now like I think I've had to think about
a lot since the start of this channeling
I never thought a lot advance but like
okay how much racism do you tolerate
before you draw the line and say I can't
work with this person in politics but
obviously because of the meeting and
interacting with other vegans and some
of them turned out to be a little bit
racist and some of them turn out to be
extremely racist you're really then you
know that it forces you to stop and
reflect those things but um terms the
work ahead anything I want to do in real
world you know vegan activism you know
being brilliant being especially
intelligent or something I mean I guess
it must make life more more entertaining
but I just don't think this is that kind
of cause it
I'm not even trying to recruit like the
finest minds in terms of in terms of art
and illustration you know I mean the
arts are like that someone could be an
idiot but they're good at drawing I mean
you could be an idiot and still make a
really positive contribution it seems to
me to the president of future of being
as I think about other things to do but
sure I think you could be intelligent
and make absolutely no cost contribution
that's probably a lot of what's going on
but yeah you know in terms of what
you're looking for which is trying to
avoid like when I first got involved in
the in the vegan scene there were a lot
of what I could just call false ideas
that were prevalent or popular you know
in the movement that like I really do
think they're false you know you just
give example I don't think it's cool to
promote veganism through pet adoption
you know what I mean you you already
know everything I've say about that now
most people when I meet people in real
life is the face at like a vegan event
they don't know my YouTube channels
never talked to me before you know as
soon as you meet go on they're vegans
that this is after me they're vegans and
they're doing a fundraiser to castrate
dogs you know I mean they see that as a
form of charity to like you know capture
and write or offer free castration for
people so so pets I say oh actually you
know I'm vegan I don't think that's a
ethical and that's moral they say oh wow
well you know I'm vegan too but you know
I've never heard that never thought
about that before the funny thing is
most of these kind of ethical problems
or like hard limits or me or false views
that are prevalent veganism they put us
like within veganism vegan a vegan in
the same situation that you're normally
in with meat eaters which is that most
of the time people just they've never
really thought about it for five minutes
but you meet people who've eaten meat
all their lives if you ask them why do
you eat meat it's because their
grandmother did it they were shown to do
it as can they never questioned it
yeah but likewise in veganism I feel
there are all kinds of things including
even the style of street protests there
are people have never
sat down in question like okay so now
you know what it's like to walk down the
street and chant Meat Is Murder where's
that gonna put you five years from now
or you know what how do you think that's
even proceed from the side of the road
by those people what do you think the
impact is on government look at the
history of different kinds of movements
different kinds of activism difficult a
lobbying how do you think can you use
your time better look when you start to
open those questions with people a lot
of times it's not that they're hostile
it's that they've never they never
thought in those terms before they've
never questioned what they're doing but
none of this I don't think any of it is
really like a you know an intelligence
test you know what Sam Harris is a big
fan by the way I despise Sam Harris I
have several videos saying how much you
despise them earth you know he likes to
quote the idea of you know being morally
lucky the idea that that kind of having
the right ideas or the right values
might to some extent be luck like you're
lucky you grew up in circumstances where
you asked some of the right questions
became some of them came to some of the
right answers and chose to live a NASA
career virtuous life you know um you
know it's so much a matter of
happenstance that it seems more like
luck than intelligence when you meet
people who happen to agree with you put
these things um look so I had another
guy I won't say who another guy you you
were here on this app but he gave me a
phone call on skype trying to
collaborate with me and trying to set up
cooperation with me
and I told him very honestly why I
didn't want to collaborate with him and
like the main reasons were look I know
you're someone who's really into playing
video games like there's a big part of
his channel and you're really into like
magical beliefs about amethyst sand rock
crystals this kind of hippy spirituality
and yoga and chakras and this kind of
stuff um you know people who believe
that stuff I you know I don't take it as
some kind of easy indication of
stupidity either you know I mean I think
it I think it reflects just people who
make bad choices
you know the people I met who
passionately supported violent forms of
AK
Judaism like Gary Yourofsky style or
direct action every style or other or a
LF even more violent forms of activism
what-have-you
terrorist I'll you know animal rights
activism there it's not a really simple
thing about being smarter being being
stupid you know oh your response to
those guys criticism of your video is
saying why would you look I mean I think
I think the reality of these people
criticize me this one is on the one hand
they're saying well what kind of
worthless person did you expect to meet
through YouTube like you can't expect to
meet ya people say that like you know if
you're on YouTube you can't expect ok
somebody you said recently I I'm
forgetting the context right now but
they're like you know why would you be
on YouTube if you care about your job
your ability to get a job like why would
you be yeah what I think don't care
about your job prospects because you're
on YouTube right so that that means that
anybody on YouTube is destined to be
jobless like I don't know uh there are
four people on YouTube or just the scum
of the world is like IEC I think it's
really I can't say 180 degrees own I
think it's more than a hundred percent
wrong you know before was involved with
vegan activism I was involved a lot in
Buddhism and you know but putting my
really honest opinions about photo SEM
on the internet it meant that I didn't
waste time meeting up with people who
were hippies or flakes or who you know
literally worshipped rock crystals was
very I'm sorry it's common I now can do
with white Hinduism you know whether you
know people you know people were just
into massage she believed that some like
massage isn't even a religion with her
into massage and they rid of magic
London you know one friend from my high
school that she was obviously
intelligent we went to the same
University yeah and now she should meet
someone
oh she's into crystals and stuff like
that now yeah I know she's not stupid
right she sometimes I mean smart people
just make bad choices and they uh a
sense they become victims of false
beliefs so they just they play the game
with false assumptions you know uh
anyway sir I was just saying about the
role of YouTube like before was on
YouTube book publishing stuff on the
internet really being honest about what
my values were my research was in
Buddhism meant that I traveled all
around the world and I met people
obviously a small number of people but
who were real scholars of Buddhism
really cared about what is no Buddhist
research of one kind or another and
we're not the kind of hippie stereotype
or the flakes there to wherever it's
it's a filter on the other side soon I
mean so like I can really say the same
thing here like by coming out on YouTube
and saying yeah I'm about veganism and
I'm not a hippie I'm not into this that
the other thing I really want to meet
people who want to do real things in
terms of advocacy and activism
what-have-you
I feel that I'm filtering out and other
people get to filter me too and that's
fine because there are other people out
there who are just looking for other
vegans who are into rock crystals in
yoga and great as the world's your
oyster or at least Vancouver British
Columbia if your oyster
Seattle zero oyster I mean you'll meet a
lot of people who have those things in
common with you you know in the vegan
scene so you know yeah I don't get it I
don't get it and I I don't get the kind
of false assumption that that the
YouTube itself is going to instead be
filtering out all of the people with
real talent and real potential yeah I I
just don't think it's true and when I
look at someone like tofu goddess I had
her on a bunch of videos on my channel I
think she's a totally smart sharp
interesting person like why like nothing
in those conversations the conversation
corkboard with her made me think wow you
don't have what it takes to present a
deposition at City Hall so if those go
to deposition just means give a formal
talk at City Hall like you don't like I
think
there are there are limits some people
are too stupid to do that absolutely
there are hard limits some people are
too stupid or too mentally disabled or
too emotionally disabled or you know
whatever it is see it as an
unprofessional thing to be on YouTube
and yeah I think a lot of people do
you're comfortable with telling people
when you get walk into a bean restaurant
yes I have a YouTube channel that's
right channel and I think maybe people
get the sense that it's going to be they
have expectations for what a YouTube
channel is gonna be like you know right
when I first got with you I didn't want
to be in your videos because I didn't
want to be on YouTube that's true
general and like sheer out of it yeah
yeah no it's true I remember yeah um but
maybe that expectation I think that's
interesting because I think over the
last three years it's not that people
live up to that expectation I think I've
seen a lot of people leave down to that
expectation I think Hania is an example
like Kenya started doing YouTube in
large part because she was pissed off
with she'd lost patience with doing
street protests the main form of her
activist in the past was being on the
street chanting marching and you know in
Israel they have demos were they I don't
know if they hold a real that dead
animals or make-believe than animals we
have they've read red ink pretending to
be blood they do a lot of real street
theater it's really kind of you know
agonizing Street Theater and this very
emotional style of a demo and she said
you know she done it a hundred times
just hit her limit so I totally
sympathize you know you want to move on
to do something more meaningful but I
think in a lot of ways she's living down
to like what the YouTube stereotype or
what YouTube demands of you we didn't
want to say no she's not challenge self
and it's a shame because she totally
could do something way more positive
well again I don't know like how
intelligent look how I told you do you
need to be to be Gary Yourofsky how I
told you need to be to be to be Joey
Carm strong I'm sorry I don't think Gary
Ross you're Jory Caron are terribly
bright but they're they're bright enough
to do a bit too bright enough to get
themselves into trouble gets out of
trouble you know talking about Venus in
front of Eunice and I believe now I
think we can do better I have videos
criticizing Gary Yourofsky you can click
below to see a playlist of them or
whatever
you know what you say I guess I was
sorry I was warm do it when I was gonna
save them now again I don't know why I
can't think of the right term but when I
heard that you edit tumblr I was kind of
expecting something like you know just
just what you think of when you think
when somebody says oh yeah I have a
tumblr like most people are too ashamed
to even say that they have like its
secretive and like you know I know
I only know like through the grapevine
that a couple of my friends do have
tumblers but like they didn't tell me
they were like you know like Facebook is
a different thing where everybody has
one and everyone's okay with adding you
as a friend but tumblr it's like just
seems automatically illicit or just like
a place to journal like talk about your
real feelings that you wouldn't really
talk about your real feelings that you
don't want anyone to read except
anonymous people just feel like
reblogging photos you think are cool
when I actually saw your tumblr I was
like oh well it's like his YouTube
channel it's actually substantive and
yeah right so it's I guess what I'm
saying is like you know a lot of people
judge by what medium you're using right
not what the actual content is okay but
but it's stupid because if you met this
person in real life if I met Hannah
mania in real life and neither said a
youtube channel if I met tofu goddess in
real life if I met Jason Posey no you
know any of these examples even if I met
Charles Marlow in real life you know he
didn't have a youtube there I'd never
you to like just parallel universe where
none of us got YouTube channels yeah why
would I judge that person think no you
don't have what it takes to be in vegan
activism what do you guys think it takes
like again there are some false ideas
out there that create hard limits I
don't want to work with people who are
pro violence
I don't want work people who are
neo-nazis or racists you know you can
make a list but once you've got those
limits out of the way what does it take
I just don't think this task and it's an
enormous task it
normal enormous task of logging for
cultural change for political change
yeah even for the food side of it and
the health side of it and the ecology so
there's so much work to do whether you
do it at City Hall or the school board
or whatever and let's do it and no if I
met if I met Charles if I met the man
formerly known as vegan she chose with
his face I don't know you you know you
can talk you can breathe your nose you
can play guitar like duh mean you can
play guitar you can talk a good game
like I you know I I don't know if the
guy actually is dyslexic or he just has
terrible spelling but whatever I mean
he's got limits you know but I would
totally try to work with some of that if
I'm in really high standards wouldn't be
different in real life than they are
with me in these people me too but it's
funny people think of me as such a snob
because I openly grovyle people for
being idiots and so on fine I'm a snob
but like you know maybe I'm maybe I'm
Way less snobby either meet these other
people in the game they just one minute
they just don't admit what they're you
know what their standards and biases
really are yeah well you're willing to
talk with these people and which is what
surprising to me that ya talked with
cheetah yeah but yeah no I don't think
it takes that much intelligence it just
takes dedication and time right and
motivation
yeah and make it a priority like I mean
it does take a certain level of
intelligence to know how to go about
making social change you know like
knowing how to conduct yourself when
you're at a town hall meeting right
something okay I agree but how are you
gonna learn without trying first yeah
manly that's the other side and like you
know Eve so someone else I was
criticized for talking to because
talking to people is such a big deal
well you know the light twins and
they're now heavily into like crystals
and you know no but you know but look
you know why wouldn't I think those guys
have the potential to make pause the
difference mm-hmm and again like so
starting from the assumption they have
some potential you know if someone like
me doesn't give them a chance you know
whatever take them to City Hall and let
them give a deposition let them see how
friend it is to give a deposition at
City Hall as opposed to making a YouTube
video they may have potential they don't
know they have themselves but also you
know yeah so cute it's like just
recently we were watching Julie carp
strong's interview and I just remember
being like wow he's come so far because
we had watched his I didn't know much
about Jovic Armstrong but you showed me
right videos from two years ago on his
channel and where he's following during
right now he's really come a long way
three years is not that long a time
that's somebody that can be on a talk
show and be presentable and somewhat
professional and you know it's great so
yeah today he is definitely doing more
good for the pachinko fintan arm yeah no
he's not perfect he's screwing some
things up but so what
make mistakes learn from your mistakes
yeah he's somebody that I think you
probably could work with if you were in
the second country the same hemisphere
but yeah anyway but I mean you know
these are all deeply flawed people but
you know at least they're trying at
least they're trying to do yeah that's
like positive um I think the other the
other thing that's really sad I want to
say this earlier this bridged obviously
you said earlier but that assumption
that there's some s like juvenile about
like the Internet itself yeah like
because something is a blog therefore
its revealer because something is on
YouTube is trivial mm-hmm look if I had
come on YouTube when I was 16 years old
and I had videos from that period yes I
would nail in a sense regret though and
I would just look back on them I would
don't even that I was stupid when I was
16 it was just wrong I was ignorant and
I was wrong about a lot of things yeah I
see that
I still have writing from the time of my
life you can read some miles write read
some stuff I wrote back when I was your
age back when I was in my early twenties
it's not can see how my views have
changed become more nuanced and more
reasonable in other ways you know so
sure you know those 16 year old more
radical and discontented me you know
didn't get immortalized on YouTube but
okay so we all know that on some level
why would you leave YouTube to be the
domain of only angry teenagers you know
what I mean I think it's yeah I think
it's so important that middle aged
people get on you
- but make a positive contribution even
if the contribution is you know just
again letting other activists know that
you're here
and you want to make something happen or
you want to find out what common ground
you've got and so on yeah I agree I find
out who else there is for you to for you
to work with you know yeah yeah I
definitely agree and not try to imitate
the 18 year olds on YouTube you know
like just because right that's what's
popular um yeah I remember seeing a
YouTube channel
the vegan neurologist and she's like
she's a middle aged person with kids and
no I don't usually watch her channel but
I was just like wow that's great like
I'm glad just someone with a real yeah
using YouTube then there's another
really small channel like his I think
his channel name is just like vegan
Chris but again he's just like a middle
aged guy that's talking about veganism
and like like that's great
that's cool like I'm happy to see that
as opposed to somebody who's talking
about diet advice or I don't even yeah
yeah
someone who's imitating an imitation of
durian right yes I want you to ride your
bicycle and eat bananas till you barf
away and so on had be a song he you said
earlier you said you know this people
are ashamed of having a tumblr or
ashamed of it you too Jim you know don't
you you know if you're ashamed of what
you're doing maybe you should change it
yeah that's subtle a sign that you know
I'm not ashamed of of my contents you
know I'm not ashamed of what I'm putting
on the internet and you can whether it's
one of my blogs or my articles or what
have you and you don't mean there's a
price for sure there did there are
disadvantages but um yeah I mean what I
thought was the advantage again really
briefly you know doing YouTube isn't
mutually exclusive with doing real world
activism but now when I show up at a
place to do real world activism I can
meet people and they they already know I
mean often don't already but know know
me or recognizes already know or I stand
on a bunch of different issues yeah I
don't want to tell the same story again
and again it's a great thing but when
you get middle-age you get tired you
don't want to throw the same stories
over and over again you know Berlocq I
can
I go to a vegan event and legitimate you
can meet because they've never thought
about this didn't ever you never thought
and they're just shocked to hear that
I'm actually against Gary Yourofsky
right
oh no yeah I have a youtube video about
that and now I don't tell straight yeah
you can see what I've said without you -
no I don't want to stand here in
monologue the same story you know at
five different the vegan picnic vegan
meetup eating vegan gathering right no I
know something funny you said about like
I don't want to I don't want to do
anybody else in the future yeah it's a
real drag I'm tired of telling my own
life story and she'd already watched
pretty much every video on my channel
never tell any of those stories again
but I know other stories really first
when we first stuck together yeah that's
right and look this thing is gonna say
is so they're people who meet me at an
event like that they've never seen my
channel before but that's still a useful
thing for this filtering they can filter
me out I can filter them out is this
someone I want to work with there's it
oh you never heard of me ever heard my
jump for oh yeah Gary Yourofsky
controversy or oh yeah castrating dogs
controversy well check out my channel
you know and those of the stuff you know
yeah whatever they might see it after
they meet me face to face in real life
and on the other hand yeah I get to go
to a vegan events and they're people who
already know me or know of me or have
some sense
oh yeah he's that guy and you know you
know where the common ground is to be
found so I can only see it as a positive
tool for organization and activism yeah
but like you know
yeah beyond that it's funny I do call
people idiots on the internet and some
of the people are called idiots have a
PhD professor will can look up talking
about you know human rights for rats yes
sir we have a video with this talked
about in more detail it's stupid you
know I don't again okay so what's the
point
what's the point of having restaurant
reviews if they're negative a meal I
think it's really important to talk
about some of the core ideas quite easy
beam is sometimes are
stupid I'm wrong no I don't believe in
civil rights for rats I don't you know I
don't think it's anyway you know we
gonna produce wheat if we have to farm
wheat without killing rats again and
that's another issue that you've heard
this before on this channel that Gary
Francey own as he calls himself or Gary
from Co fun coa as he would be called
nidalee Gary fritzy on Monday uh he you
know really has trouble dealing with
that but yes actually farming fruit and
wheat when happy involves killing
animals cuz this position is not in
Torah blah blah blah okay yeah it's a
role critique is important for that it's
a port for letting people know who I am
before they meet me or after they maybe
an event blah blah blah but the bottom
line is I've said this recently in the
conversation with flan phase I do think
veganism is a simple enough message that
children can understand it and children
can profound it and you don't need to be
brilliant I mean I think in a sense like
I said Sam Harris is idea being morally
lucky it's almost luck if you happen to
have the right set of user assumptions
coming into this so I think you have an
advantage if you start off coming into
it from a position of ecology as opposed
to say traditional Hinduism there are
lots of vegans who started off as Hindu
then they realize where milk comes from
and then they become vegan instead of
vegetarian and believe me in the next
ten years next twenty years they're
gonna be more India's gonna become a
warm for in place reviews you know but
sure you have certain advantages
approaching in a more scientific way or
more ecological way and again I don't
think I don't think it has anything to
do with intelligence you know the people
who believe in rock crystals and so some
ways they're just we could be be say
unfortunate you know but yeah what I'm
when I'm trying to recruit for these
things uh yeah what you know I don't
know I don't know the Internet's funny
the internet makes it possible for us to
all seem like were cooperating and
collaborating when really were not we're
living totally separate lives that you
know I've worked at newspapers have
worked in magazines and an old-fashioned
newspaper or magazine you really work
together you know like cooks in a
kitchen you know in a way that never
happens in the Internet and now
everybody in the kitchen has to be
brilliant you just can't be a crackhead
you don't want anyone of the kitchen
staff who's a drug addict or you know
what it means strung out or something
it's a problem you know there are
minimum standards but I think I think
you can have a brilliant newspaper or a
brilliant magazine or a Brian kitchen
working and I you know a lot of that
work it doesn't take a lot of brilliance
takes good intentions and you know sir
it's free decor